>> Woodruff:IN A BLOW TO THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT,
THE SUPREME COURT RULED TODAY
FAMILY-OWNED CORPORATIONS WITH
RELIGIOUS OBJECTIONS ARE NOT
REQUIRED TO PAY FOR
CONTRACEPTIVE COVERAGE.
GOOD EVENING I'M JUDY WOODRUFF,
GWEN IFILL IS AWAY.
ALSO AHEAD THIS MONDAY, GENERAL
MOTORS' NEW PLAN TO PAY FAMILIES
OF THOSE KILLED OR SEVERELY
INJURED IN CAR ACCIDENTS CAUSED
BY IGNITION DEFECTS.
WE HEAR FROM THE MAN BEHIND THE
DEAL, KENNETH FEINBERG, IN HIS
FIRST LIVE INTERVIEW SINCE THE
ANNOUNCEMENT.
PRESIDENT OBAMA PLEDGED TO ACT
ON IMMIGRATION REFORM, WITHOUT
CONGRESS, AFTER GETTING WORD
THAT HOUSE REPUBLICANS  WILL NOT
VOTE ON ANY LEGISLATION THIS
YEAR.
PLUS: THEY BEAT CANCER AS KIDS,
BUT FACE A LIFETIME OF HEALTHCH.
>> A RECENT STUDY FOUND THAT
ADULT SURVIVORS OF CHILDHOOD
CANCER ARE FIVE TIMES MORE
LIKELY THAN THEIR SIBLINGS TO
DEVELOP NEW CANCERS, HEART
PROBLEMS AND OTHER SERIOUS
HEALTH CONDITIONS AFTER THE AGE
OF 35.
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE JUST SOME
OF THE STORIES WE'RVEGHT'S PBS .
>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT OBAMA
FORMALLY ANNOUNCED HIS CHOICE
TODAY TO RUN THE TROUBLED
DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.
ROBERT MCDONALD IS A FORMER
EXECUTIVE AT PROCTOR AND GAMBLE
AND WEST POINT GRADUATE WHO
SERVED AS A CAPTAIN IN THE ARMY.
THE V.A. FACES A SCANDAL OVER
HEALTH CARE DELAYS, BUT THE
PRESIDENT SAID MCDONALD WOULD
HELP CREATE A "NEW CULTURE OF
ACCOUNTABILITY
>> BOB IS AN EXPERT IN MAKING
ORGANIZATIONS BETTER.
IN HIS CAREER, HE'S TAKEN OVER
STRUGGLING BUSISS UNENI, HE
KNOWS HOW TO ROLL UP HIS SLEEVES
AND GETS TO WORK, PUTTING AN END
TO WHAT DOESN'T WORK, ADOPTING
BEST PRACTICES THAT DO,
RESTRUCTURING, INTRODUCING
INNOVATIONS, MAKING OPERATIONS
MORE EFFICIENT AND EFFECTIVE.
>> Woodruff: MCDONALD RESIGNED
FROM PROCTOR AND GAMBLE A YEAR
AGO, AS INVESTORS PRESSED FOR
BETTER RETURNS.
IF HE'S CONFIRMED BY THE SENATE,
HE'LL SUCCEED RETIRED GENERAL
C SHSEKIWHO FT T V-A
UNDER FIRE LAST MONTH.
THE BODIES OF THREE MISSING
ISRAELI TEENAGERS WERE FOUND
LATE TODAY IN THE WEST BANK.
PRIME MINISTER BENJAMIN
NETANYAHU BLAMED HAMAS AND
WARNED OF RETALIATION.
THE REMAINS WERE BURIED IN A
FIELD NORTH OF HEBRON.
THE TEENS HAD BEEN HITCH-HIKING
THERE WHENY TWO
WEEKS AGO.
THEIR ABDUCTION SPARKED A MAJOR
MANHUNT BY ISRAEL.
MILITANTS IN GAZA STRUCK BACK BY
FIRING ROCKETS.
THERE WAS CELEBRATION AND
CONDEMNATION TODAY AFTER SUNNI
EXTREMISTS DECLARED A NEW MUSLIM
STATE, OR CALIPHATE,  IN IRAQ
AND SYRIA.
"THE ISLAMIC STATE IN IRAQ AND
THE LEVANT", OR "ISIL" ALSO
KNOWN AS "ISIS" MADE THE
ANNOUNCEMENT ON SUNDAY.
JONATHAN RUGN OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS HAS OUR REPORT.
>> Reporter: THIS WAS HOW ONE
JIHADIST FROM I.S.I.S. ANNOUNCED
THE GROUP'S RE-BRANDING AS I.S.
OR  ISLAMIC STATE.
>> NOW THIS IS ALL ONE COUNTRY.
THE GROUP'S LATEST VIDEOS SHOW
THE SYMBOLIC BULLDOZING OF THE
LINE BETWEEN SYRIA AND IRAQ ON
THE MAP.
WHILE A GOVERNMENT BUILDING NEAR
THE BORDER IS BLOWN UP FOR THE
CAMERA.
A MEDIEVAL CALIPHATE RE-BORN FOR
THE SOCIAL MEDIA AGE.
YOUR GUIDE, A MILITANT KNOWN AS
ABU SAFIYYA, CLAIMED TO BE FROM
CHILE IN SOUTH AMERICA, THOUGH
HE SAYS NATIONALITY DOESN'T
MATTER.
THIS IS BELIEVED TO BE ABU BAKR
AL BAGHDADI THE NEW RULER NOW
KNOWN AS CALIPH IBRAHIM.
HIS SPOKESMAN BLURRED IN THE
MIDDLE HERE HAS DECLARED THAT
ER HIS CONTROL.IST GROUPS ARE
AND THOUGH THERE WERE
CELEBRATIONS ON THE SYRIAN SIDE
OF THE BORDER LAST NIGHT SEVERAL
SENIOR SUNNI CLERICS HAVE
DENOUNCED THE MOVE AS
ILLEGITIMATE.
I.S.I.S. IS APPARENTLY
SUCCEEDING WHERE AL-QAEDA
FAILED.
BUT IT'S AMBITION AND EXTREME
VIOLENCE MIGHT TURN OUT TO BE
ITS UNDOING.
THERE'S ALREADY FIGHTING BETWEEN
RIVAL SUNNI MILITANT FACTIONS
ALONG THE SYRIAN IRAQI BORDER,
FOCUSED HERE IN THE TOWN OF
BOUKKAMAL AND THAT MIGHT BEGIN
TO INTENSIFY.
>> Woodruff: THERE WAS ALSO MORE
FIGHTING IN THE IRAQI CITY OF
TIKRIT, AS GOVERNMENT FORCES
STRUGGLED TO REGAIN CONTROL FROM
THE  MILITANTS.
AND THE PENTAGON DISPATCHED
ANOTHER 200  TROOPS TO PROTECT
AMERICAN CITIZENS AND THE U.S.
EMBASSY IN BAGHDAD.
THAT BRINGS THE OVERALL FORCE TO
NEARLY 800.
FIGHTING IN SOUTHERN AFGHANISTAN
STRETCHED INTO A SECOND WEEK
TODAY.
AFGHAN FORCES HAVE BEEN BATTLING
TO HOLD HELMAND PROVINCE.
A THOUSAND TALIBAN FIGHTERS
ATTACKED THERE 10 DAYS AGO.
U.S. FORCES PULLED OUT OF THE
PROVINCE IN MAY.
JUST ACROSS THE BORDER, IN
PAKISTAN, GOVERNMENT FORCES
LAUNCHED A GROUND OFFENSIVE
AGAINST A KEY TALIBAN
STRONGHOLD.
IT'S THE SECOND PHASE OF AN
OPERATION IN NORTH WAZIRISTAN
THAT BEGAN WITH AIR STRIKES IN
MID-JUNE.
THE ARMY SAID 15 MILITANTS WERE
KILLED TODAY, IN THE INITIAL
ADVANCE.
THE OFFENSIVE BEGAN AFTER HALF A
MILLION CIVILIANS EVACUATED THE
AREA.
THE U.S. JUSTICE DEPARTMENT
SLAPPED FRANCE'S BIGGEST BANK
WITH A RECORD FINE TODAY -- $8.8
BILLION.
B.N.P. PARIBAH PLEADED GUILTY TO
CONSPIRACY AND FALSIFYING
BUSINESS RECORDS IN A BID TO
CIRCUMVENT U.S. ECONOMIC
SANCTIONS AGST CUBA, IRAN AND
SUDAN.
FEDERAL PROSECUTORS SAID THE
BANK ENGAGED IN A LONG-TERM
CONSPIRACY.
ON WALL STREET TODAY, THE DOW
JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE LOST 25
POINTS TO CLOSE AT 16,826.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 10 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 4,408.
AND THE S-AND-P 500 DROPPED A
FRACTION TO END AT 1960.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR;
THE SUPREME COURT LIMITS THE
HEALTH CARE LAW'S CONTRACEPTIVE
COVEGE MANDATE;
AND RULED SOME PUBLIC EMPLOYEES
CAN OPT OUT OF PAYING UNION
FEES;
KENNETH FEINBERG'S FIRST LIVE
INTERVIEW AFTER ANNOUNCING
G.M.'S PAYOUT PLAN FOR IGNITION
SWITCH VICTIMS;
HEALTH RISKS FOR THOSE WHO'VE
SURVIVED A CHILDHOOD BOUT WITH
CANCER;
PLUS, THE PRESIDENT'S PUSH ON
IMMIGRATION, WITHOUT CONGRESS;
>> Woodruff: A SHARPLY DIVIDED
U.S. SUPREME COURT TODAY RULED
THAT SOME CORPORATIONS CAN OPT
OUT OF THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT'S
CONTRACEPTIVE COVERAGE MANDATE
BECAUSE OF RELIGIOUS OBJECTIONS.
THE FIVE-TO-FOUR DECISION COMES
TWO YEARS AFTER THE JUSTICES
UPHELD THE PRESIDENT'S HEALTH
CARE LAW, AND LEAVES THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION TO LOOK FOR
ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE SURE ALL
WOMEN WHO WANT IT, HAVE ACCESS
TO CONTRACEPTIVE CARE.
>> Woodruff: AS WORD OF THE
DECISION SPREAD, CHEERS ERUPTED
OUTSIDE THE COURT, FROM
OPPONENTS OF THE CONTRACEPTIVE
COVERAGE MANDATE.
>> THE MAIN TAKEAWAY IS THAT OUR
GOVERNMENT OVERREACHED, YET
AGAIN.
AND OUR GOVERNMENT CANNOT FORCE
D FREEDOM OFTHEIR FREEDOM OF
BELIEFS.
>> Woodruff: ON THE OTHER SIDE,
SUPPORTERS OF THE MANDATE VOICED
DISAPPOINTME
>> CLEARLY THE COURT IS JUST OUT
OF TOUCH ON THE WILL OF THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE ON THIS.
BIRTH CONTROL IS NOT
CONTROVERSIAL.
IT'S REALLY NOT, EXCEPT FOR A
VERY SMALL EXTREME RELIGIOUS
MINORITY.
>> Woodruff: TWO COMPANIES
SUCCESSFULLY CHALLENGED THE
MANDATE IN THE AFFORDABLE CARE
ACT:
HOBBY LOBBY, BASED IN OKLAHOMA,
IS A NATIONAL CRAFT STORE CHAIN
WITH MORE THAN 600 STORES AND
SOME 15,000 EMPLOYEES.
IT'S  OWNED BY AN EVANGELICAL
CHRISTIAN FAMILY.
CONESTOGA WOOD, A CABINET MAKER
BASED IN PENNSYLVANIA, IS OWNED
BY A MENNONITE FAMILY, AND HAS
ABOUT 950 EMPLOYEES.
BOTH FIRMS ARGUED THAT HAVING TO
COVER CONTRACEPTION VIOLATES
THEIR RELIGIOUS BELIEFS.
THE COURT AGREED, RULING THAT
SUCH COMPANIES, CONTROLLED BY A
SMALL NUMBER OF PEOPLE, MAY OPT
OUT OF THE MANDATE.
THE DECISION DOES NOT APPLY TO
OTHER PROVISIONS IN THE HEALTH
CARE LAW OR TO LARGER
CORPORATIONS.
LORI WINDHAM IS THE ATTORNEY FOR
HOBBY LOBBY.
>> TODAY'S DECISION IS A
LANDMARK DAY FOR RELIGIOUS
FREEDOM.
THE SUPREME COURT, THE SUPREME
COURT RECOGNIZED THAT AMERICAN
FAMILIES DO NOT LOSE THEIR
FUNDAMENTAL RIGHTS WHEN THEY
OPEN A FAMILY BUSINESS.
>> Woodruff: THE VIEW AT THE
WHITE HOUSE WAS DECIDEDLY
DIFFERENT.
SPOKESMAN JOSH EARNEST.
>> THE RULING ALLOWS THE BOSSES
OF THESE WOMEN TO ESSENTIALLY
STEP IN AND SAY, "WELL, I HAVE A
RELIGIOUS CONCERN, SO YOU'RE NOT
ALLOWED TO MAKE YOUR OWN
DECISION ABOUT WHETHER OR NOT
YOU'D LIKE TO BENEFIT FROM THESE
SERVICES.
WE'RE GOING TO MAKE SURE THEY
AREN'T PROVIDED."
WE STRONGLY DISAGREE WITH THAT.
WE BELIEVE THAT CONGRESS SHOULD
TAKE ACTION TO FIX IT.
>> Woodruff: THE CONTRACEPTION
MANDATE FACES SEPARATE LEGAL
CHALLENGES FROM RELIGIOUSLY
AFFILIATED HOSPITALS, COLLEGES
AND CHARITIES.
>> Woodruff: FOR MORE ON TODAY'S
DECISION, WE TURN AS ALWAYS TO
MARCIA COYLE OF THE NATIONAL LAW
JOURNAL.
MARCIA, WELCOME BACK TO THE
PROGRAM.
FINAL DAY OF THE COURT, FINAL
DAY TO ISSUE.
THIS IS A BIG ONE.O THE COURT, E
SAYING, WE'RE BEING ASKED TO
VIOLATE OUR RELIGIOUS BELIEFS.
WHAT, IN HANDING DOWN THIS
DECISION, WHAT DID THE COURT
BASE THE DECISION ON?
>> WELL, JUDY, THE COURT STARTS
WITH THE LAW, THE RELIOUS
FREEDOM RESTORATION ACT.
AND THAT ACT PROHIBITS THE
GOVERNMENT FROM IMPOSING A
SUBSTANTIAL BURDEN ON A PERSON'S
EXERCISE OF RELIGION UNLESS THE
GOVERNMENT HAS A COMPELLING
INTEREST AND USES NARROWLY...
THE LEAST RESTRICTIVE MEANS TO
FURTHER THAT INTEREST.
SO JUSTICE ALITO, WHO DELIVERED
THE MAJORITY OPINION TODAY FOR
5-4 COURT, STARTED WITH THE
LANGUAGE OF THE LAW.
"ARE FOR-PROFIT CORPORATIONS
PERSONS UNDER THE RELIGIOUS
FREEDOM RESTORATION ACT."
HE LOOKED TO WHAT'S KNOWN AS THE
DICTIONARY ACT, WHAT CONGRESS
USES TO DEFINE CERTAIN WORDS AND
STATUTES.
PERSONS, HE SAYS, HAVE ALWAYS
INCLUDED CORPORATION, AND HE
NED OTAT NON-PROFIT RELIGIOUS
ORGANIZATIONS HAVE BEEN ALLOWED
TO BRING LAWSUITS UNDER THIS
PARTICULAR LA
JUSTICE GINSBURG WROTE FOR THE
DISSENTERS.
ON THIS PARTICULAR POINT SHE DID
DISAGREE.
SHE SAID THAT IT'S TRUE THAT
NON-PROFIT RELIGIOUS
ORGANIZATIONS HAVE BEEN COVERED
BY THE LAW, BUT THAT'S BECAUSE
THE COURT HAS ALWAYS GIVEN
SPECIAL SOLICITUDE TO RELIGIOUS
ORGANIZATIONS THAT ARE FORMED
FROM A COMMON COMMUNITY OF
BELIEFS AND DESIGNED TO PROMOTE
THAT BELIEF.
THAT'S NOT TRUE OF FOR-PROFIT
CORPORATIONS.
JUSTICE ALITO THEN PROVED ON,
AND HE LOOKED AT WHETHER THIS
WAS A SUBSTANTIAL BURDEN ON THE
HOBBY LOBBY AND CONESTOGA WOOD
OWNERS.
HE SAID THEY FACED ENORMOUS
FINES IF THEY DID NOT PROVIDE
THIS COVERAGE.
THEN HE DID ASSUME THAT THE
GOVERNMENT HAD A COMPELLING
INTEREST INROVING THIS CARE
TO WOMEN, BUT HE SAID WHERE THE
LAW FAILED WAS THAT THE
GOVERNMENT DID NOT CHOOSE THE
LEAST RESTRICTIVE MEANS TO
FURTHER THAT INTEREST.
HE SUGGESTED THE GOVERNMENTOR TR
THE GOVERNMENT COULD EXTEND AN
ACCOMMODATION THAT IT NOW GIVES
TO NON-PROFIT RELIGIOUS
ORGANIZATIONS.
THEY CAN JUST CERTIFY, SIGNING A
FOM, THAT THEY OBJECT, AND THEN
THE BURDEN SHIFTS TO THEIR
INSURERS OR THIRD-PARTY
ADMINISTRATORS.
>>
>> Woodruff: DO YOU GET A
SENSE FROM LISTENING TO AND
READING WHAT THE JUSTICES RULED
TODAY, MARCIA, THAT THIS IS A
DECISION THAT'S GOING TO HAVE
BROAD IMPLICATIONS FOR MANY
OTHER CORPORATIONS?
>> WELL, IT DEPENDS ON WHOSE
DECISION YOU READ, WHOSE OPINION
YOU READ.
JUSTICE ALITO STRESSED IN HIS
OPINION AND FROM THE BENCH WHEN
HE READ A SUMMARY THAT THIS WAS
LIMITED TO  HELD
CORPORATIONS AND THE
CONTRACEPTIVE INSURANCE
REQUIREMENT IN THE AFFORDABLE
CARE ACT.
JUSTICE GINSBURG SAID, UH-UH,
"CLOSELY HELD" DOES NOT MEAN
SMALL, AND THE WAY THE LAW WAS
READ SO EXPANSIVELY, SHE SAID,
ALSO MEANS THAT LARGE
CORPORATIONS MAY BE USING THIS
AS WELL.
SHE PREDICTED THAT THERE WOULD
BE A HOST O "ME TOO" CLAIMS
FOLLOWING.
THIS HOW DO YOU DECIDE, SHE
SAID -- WHAT DO DO YOU IF A
CORPORATION COMES IN AND SAYS IT
DOESN'T WANT TO PAY THE MINIMUM
WAGE BECAUSE OF ITS RELIGIOUS
BELIEFS?
>> Woodruff: MAR SHARKS DOES
THIS OPEN THE DOOR MORE OR CLOSE
THE DOOR A LITTLE BIT TO FURTHER
CHALLENGES TO THE AFFORDABLE
CARE ACT?
>> JUSTICE ALITO SUGGESTED IN
HIS OPINION THAT ONE OF THE
THINGS THE GOVERNMENT COULD HAVE
DONE WAS EXTEND AN ACCOMMODATION
THAT IT GIVES NOW TO NON-PROFIT
RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATIONS.
BUT THE TRUTH IS THAT IS ALREADY
UNDER ATTACK IN THE COURTS, MANY
COURTS AROUND THE COUNTRY, AND
IT'S GOING TO GET TO THE SUPREME
COURT.
THE SUPREME COURT HAS NOT YET
RULED ON THE CONSTITUTIONALITY
OF THAT.
THERE ARE ALSO OTHER CHALLENGES
TO THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT THAT
ARE UNRELATED TO THE
CONTRACEPTIVE INSURANCE
REQUIREMENT.
THEY'RE PENDING IN FEDERAL
APPELLATE COURTS.
THIS WAS THE SECOND TIME, THE
SECOND CHALLENGE THE COURT HAS
TAKEN UP CONCERNING THIS LAW.
AND I THINK THERE ARE GOING TO
BE MORE DOWN THE ROAD.
>> Woodruff: OKAY, MAR SHAMPEY
WE'LL COME BACK TO YOU IN A
MINUTE ABOUT THE OTHER MAJOR
LOOKING FROM THE COURT TODAY.
FOR RIGHT NOW WE WANT TO TALK
ABOUT THE HOBBY LOBBY DECISION
AND WHAT IT'S GOING TO MEAN
PRACTICALLY.
JOINING US ARE ELIZABETH WYDRA.
SHE IS CHIEF COUNSEL AT A LEFT
LEANING THINK-TANK AND LAW FIRM
THAT FILED AN AMICUS BRIEF IN
SUPPORT OF THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION IN TODAY'S CASE.
AND KEVIN BAINE.
HE IS A LAWYER IN PRIVATE
PRACTICE IN WASHINGTON, D.C.
HE FILED AN AMICUS BRIEF SIDING
WITH THE CORPORATIONS.
WE WELCOME YOU BOTH TO THE NEWS
HOWMPLE KEN BVINE, TO YOU
FIRST.
HOW DO YOU INTERPRET WHAT THE
COURT RULED TODAY?
>> I THINK COURT'S OPINION WAS
NARROW.
THERE WERE TWO ISSUES BEFORE THE
COURT.
FIRST ONE WAS WHETHER A
FOR-PROFIT CORPORATION, A
CLOSELY HELD FOR-PROFIT
CORPORATION THAT WAS FORMED IN
PART TO ADVANCE RELIGIOUS
OBJECTIVE HAS ANY RELIGIOUS
INTERESTS THAT CAN BE ASSERTED.
THE GOVERNMENT ARGUED THAT IT
DID NOT.
THE COURT REJECTED THAT BY 5-2
VOTE WITH TWO JUSTICES NOT
TAKING A POSITION ON THAT.
THEN THE COURTESY.
LY HELD THAT -- THEN THE
COURTESY.
LY HELD THAT ONCE YOU RECOGNIZE
FIRST AMENDMENT ISSUES IN THIS
CASES, THE GOVERNMENT HAS TO
SHOW THERE IS NO OTHER MEANS OF
ACCOMPLISHING THIS.
THE GOVERNMENT PAINTED ITSELF
INTO A CORNER BY SAYING ON THE
ONE HAND, THERE ARE NO RELIGIOUS
INTERESTS AT ALL HERE, BUT WE
WANT TO ACCOMMODATE GENUINE
RELIGIOUS INTERESTS BY OFFERING
THIS ACCOMMODATION, WHICH IS
OFFERED IN THE REGULTIONS.
SO ONCE THE SUPREME COURT SAID
THERE WAS A RELIGIOUS INTEREST,
ALL THE COURT SAID WAS, WELL,
GIVE THOSE EMPLOYERS THE SAME
ACCOMMODATION THAT YOU GIVE TO
OTHERS.
>> Woodruff: ELIZABETH WYDRA,
YOU SEE THIS VERY DIFFERENTLY.
>> I AGREE WITH JUSTICE GINSBURG
WHO SAID IN HER DISSENT THAT THE
MAJORITY'S RULING WAS
STARTLINGLY BROAD.
I THINK THAT'S RIGHT.
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN MORE THAN
200 YEARS OF FREE EXERCISE LAW,
THE COURT HAS SAID A FOR-PROFIT
PRIVATELY OWNED CORPORATION CAN
EXERCISE RELIGIOUS FREE EXERCISE
RIGHTS, SOMETHING THAT HAS BEEN
THOUGHT TO APPLY ONLY THE
LIVING, BREATHING INDIVIDUAL
HUMAN BEINGS AND NOT TO
ARTIFICIAL CORPORATE ENTITIES.
EVEN WITH RESPECT TO THAT PART
OF THE DECISION, THE RULING WAS
ALREADY VERY BROAD.
AND THEN WHILE THE COURT TRIES
TO LIMIT ITS RULING, TRYING TO
SAY IT WON'T IMPACT CLAIMS
AGAINST VACCINATIONS OR BLOOD
TRANSFUSIONS OR
ANTI-DISCRIMINATION LAW, WHILE
ISAYS THAT, AS JUSTICE
GINSBURG SAYS IN HER DISSENT,
THERE'S NOTHING THAT PREVENTS
THE EXTENSION OF THE MAJORITY'S
REASONING TO THOSE IMPORTANT
CLAIMS THAT ARE INCREDIBLY
IMPORTANT TO WORKERS ACROSS THE
COUNTRY.
>> WHY ISN'T THAT A CORRECT
INTERPRETATION, KEVIN BAINE?
>> WELL, IN LARGE PART BECAUSE
THE COURT SAYS IT'S NO.
YOU HAVE TO PAY ATTENTION TO THE
MAJORITY OPINION.
JUSTICE ALITO, WRITING FOR THE
COURT, WAS VERY CLEAR.
THIS IS A VERY NARROW RULING.
THE DISSENT SUGGESTED, OH, NOW
PEOPLE WILL SAY WE HAVE
RELIGIOUS OBJECTION TO
ANTI-DISCRIMINATION LAWS.
JUSTICE ALITO SAID,, NO THAT'S
NOT THE CASE.
THERE IS A COMPELLING GOVERNMENT
INTEREST IN ENFORCING THOSE
LAWS.
THERE IS NO LESS RESTRICTIVE WAY
TO DO.
SO SO I THINK IT'S INCUMBENT ON
THOSE WHO THINK IT'S BROADER
THAN JUDGE ALITO SAYS IT IS
NEEDS TO MAKE A CASE.
>> Woodruff: WHY DOESN'T WHAT
THE MAJORITY JUSTICE SAYS HOLD?
>> I THINK IT WOULD BE GREAT TO
TAKE THE ROBERTS' COURT AT THEIR
WORD, BUT LOOK TO THE LEGAL
REASONING.
WITH RESPECT TO LIMITING IT TO
CLOSELY HELD CORPORATIONS, THE
MAJORITY OPINION ACTUALLY
DOESN'T EXPRESSLY LIMIT THE
RECOGNITION OF CORPORATE FREE
EXERCISE RIGHTS TO CLOSELY HELD
CORPORATIONS.
THEY SAY THAT IT'S UNLIKELY OR
IMPROBABLE THAT A PUBLICLY
TRADED CORPORATION WOULD BE ABLE
TO MAKE THESE SIMILAR CLAIMS,
BUT THEY COULD STILL BRING THEM
IN COURT.
THEY MIGHT LOSE, BUT IT'S STILL
A RIGHT THAT IS SO BROADLY
EXTENDED IN AN UNPRECEDENTED
MANNER.
>> Woodruff: WHY COULDN'T THIS
HAPPEN AGAIN OR SOMETHING... WHY
COULDN'T A CASEIMIL SAR TOHIS
KEVIN BANE, BE BROUGHT SAY ON
BEHALF OF A FIRM WITH EMPLOYEES
WITH DIFFERENT RELIGIOUS VIEWS
WHO HAPPEN TO HAVE A DIFFERENT
SET OF BELIEFS IN ONE WAY OR
ANOTHER?
>> LET ME SAY THREE THINGS.
FIRST OF ALL, THE WOMEN WHO ARE
EMPLOYED BY THESE CORPORATIONS
WILL CONTINUE TO RECEIVE THESE
CONTRACEPTIVE SERCES AT NO
COST TO THEMSELVES.
SECONDLY, THERE ARE --.
>> Woodruff: LET ME STOP YOU.
THERE YOU'RE SHAKING YOUR HEAD.
NO.
>> I THINK THAT'S UNCLEAR.
WHAT WOULD NEED TO HAPPEN FOR
FEMALE EMPLOYEES OF THESE
COMPANIES, TENS OF THOUSANDS OF
WOMEN ACROSS THE COUNTRY JUST
INVOLVED IN THIS CASE ALONE, WHO
KNOWS WHAT IT COULD MEAN WHEN
OTHER COMPANIES COME IN, BUT THE
GOVERNMENT WOULD HAVE TO ENGAGE
IN AN ACCOMMODATION LIKE THE ONE
SUGGESTED BY THE MAJORITY WHERE
THE GOVERNMENT PAYS FOR THE
CONTRACEPTION, BUT IF THE
GOVERNMENT DOESN'T PASS SOME NEW
REGULATIONS, THEN THE WOMEN WILL
BE STUCK WITH NOT BEING ABLE TO
ACCESS ALL FORMS OF
F.D.A.-APPROVED CONTRACEPTION
UNLESS THEY CAN AFFORD TO PAY
FOR IT OUT OF POCKET.
>> Woodruff: KEVIN BAINE, WHY
ARE YOU CONVINCED THE GOVERNMENT
WILL TAKE CARE OF THIS?
>> YOU HAVE TO BELIEVE THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION WOULD AOW THESE
WOMEN TO NOT HAVE ACCESS TO
THESE SERVICES.
THERE'S NO DOUBT AT ALL ABOUT
WHAT THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION
WILL DO.
THEY HAVE A REGULATION THAT
ACCOMMODATES RELIGIOUS
OBJECTIONS.
THE SUPREME COURT HAS SAID TO
THE ADMINISTRATION, YOU SHOULD
ACCOMMODATE THESE RELIGIOUS
OBJECTIONS, AS WELL, IN THE SAME
WAY.
OF COURSE THEY WILL DO SO.
>> Woodruff: ALL RIGHT.
WELL, CONTINUING WITH YOUR POINT
YOU, WERE SAYING THERE ARE OTHER
REASONS WHY...
>> MY SECOND POINT IS THAT THERE
ARE VERY FEW CORPORATIONS WHO
WILL BE ABLE TO MAKE THE SHOWING
THAT THESE CORPORATIONS MADE
THAT THEY REALLY WERE FOUNDED IN
LARGE PART ON RELIGIOUS
PRINCIPLES.
IBM, EXXON, GOOGLE, APPLE AREN'T
GOING TO BE MAKING THOSE POINTS.
THE THIRD POINT IS THAT THERE
ARE VERY FEW LAWS LIKE THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT.
THIS WAS A VERY UNUSUAL MANDATE
IMPOSED BY THE GOVERNMENT, SOWN
USUAL THAT THE COURT CAME WITHIN
ONE VOTE OF STRIKING IT DOWN
ALTOGETHER SOME THIS LAW DOES
NOT HAVE TOO MANY PARALLELS.
>> WELL, IF WE'RE GOING TO COUNT
AVING THE TRADITIONAL WITHIN ONE
UNDERSTANDING OF FREE EXERCISE
RIGHTS BE UPHELD TODAY.
I THINK WHAT'S IMPORTNT IS THAT
KEASNT JOB
OF TRYING MAKE THIS DECISION
SEEM NARROW, BUT FIRST OF ALL,
CLOSELY HELD DOESN'T MEAN SMALL.
THE LARGEST PRIVATE COMPANIES
ACROSS THE UNITED STATES EMPLOY
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS PEOPLE,
AND THIS MANDATE ISN'T THAT
UNUSUAL.
YOU KNOW, ESSENTIALLY THE
SUPREME COURT SAID IN ITS
MAJORITY TODAY THAT THE
GOVERNMENT SHOULD PAY FOR THESE
COVERAGE ITEMS IN THE AFFORDABLE
CARE ACT, BUT THE GOVERNMENT WAS
TRYING TO USE THE EXISTING
EMPLOYER-SPONSORED HEALTH
INSURANCE PLANS.
I THINK WHAT'S IMPORTANT IS THAT
WOMEN ACROSS THE COUNTRY WILL
SEE THIS RULING AND THINK THAT
THE SUPREME COURT THINKS THAT
THE INTEREST IN PROVIDING
CONTRACEPTION COVERAGE TO THEM
IS A SECOND-CLASS COME PEG
GOVERNMENT INTEREST.
>> Woodruff: KEVIN BAINE,
EXPLAIN WHY THEY SHOULDN'T DRAW
THAT CONCLUSION.
>> THERE ARE NOT TWO CLASSES OF
COMPELLING GOVERNMENTAL
INTEREST.
WHEN THE COURT SAYS SOMETHING IS
A COMPELLING GOVERNMENTAL
INTEREST, THAT MEANS IT'S AN
INTEREST OF THE HIGST ORDER.
THE MAJORITY SAID WOMEN'S RIGHT
TO THESE SERVICES IS A
COMPELLING GOVERNMENTAL INTEREST
OF THE HIGHEST ORDER.
I DON'T THINK IT COULD HAVE BEEN
ANY MORE CLEAR ABOUT THAT.
THERE IS A TEMPTATION TO PRESENT
THIS CASE AS A CONFLICT BETWEEN
RELIGIOUS FREEDOM AND
REPRODUCTIVE RIGHTS.
I DON'T SEE IT THAT WAY.
THERE IS A FIRSTME AND
STATUTORY RIGHT TO RELIGIOUS
FREEDOM IN THIS COUNTRY.
THERE IS NO RIGHT TO HAVE THE
GOVERNMENT, MUCH LESS A PRIVATE
EMPLOYER, PAY FOR REPRODUCTIVE
SERVICES.
>> Woodruff: VERY BRIEF
RESPONSE.
>> I THINK YOU DON'T SEE IT THAT
WAY, BUT A LOT OF WOMEN ACROSS
THE COUNTRY WILL SEE IT
DIFFERENTLY.
IT'S IMPORTANT NOTE AS JUSTICE
GINSBURG DID, THAT THE FULL
RANGE OF APPROVED CONTRACEPTION
BE PROVIDED TO WOMEN WITHOUT
COST SHARING SO A DECISION ABOUT
WHAT IS THE SAFEST, MOST
EFFECTIVE MEANS OF FAMILY
PLANNING IS A DECISION MADE BY A
WOMAN AND HER DOCTOR.
>> Woodruff: WE HEAR YOU BOTH.
ELIZABETH WYDRA, KEVIN BAINE,
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: AS WE SAID A
MOMENT AGO, THE SUPREME COURT
ALSO DECIDED A CASE TODAY THAT
COULD HAVE IMPLICATIONS FOR THE
FUTURE OF PUBLIC SECTOR LABOR
UNIONS.
THE COURT FOUND IN ANOTHER 5-4
DECISION THAT SOME PUBLIC SECTOR
HOME HEALTH WORKERS DID NOT HAVE
TO PAY UNION DUES.
THE COURT DID NOT GO AS FAR AS
SOME CONSERVATIVES WANTED, BUT
IT DID DELIVER A SETBACK TO
ORGANIZED LABOR.
BACK WITH US AGAIN TO TALK ABOUT
WH THE JSTIC DID, MARCIA
COYLE.
YOU'RE STILL HERE AT THE TABLE.
MARCIA
BACKGROUND ON THIS CASE.
WHAT WAS THE ORIGIN OF THE SUIT
THAT WAS BROUGHT?
>> THERE WERE EIGHT ILLINOIS
HOME HEALTH CARE WORKERS WHO
FILED A LAWSUIT CHALLENGING THE
SO-CALLED "AGENCY FEES" THAT
THEY HAD TO PAY TO THE UNION
THAT REPRESENTED HOME HEALTH
CARE WORKERS.
AGENCY FEES ARE CHARGED
NON-UNION MEMBERS IN ORDER HELP
COVER THE COSTS OF COLLECTIVE
BARGAINING NEGOTIATIONS.
THE UNION CANNOT USE THE FEES
FOR ANY OTHER REASON, FOR
EXAMPLE, TO ADVOCATE A POLITICAL
POSITION.
THE NON-UNION MEMBERS WANTED THE
COURT TO OVERTURN A 1977
DECISION WHICH HAD UPHELD AGENCY
FEES AGAINST A CHALLENGE BASED
ON THE FIRST AMENDMENT, AND THE
COURT BACK THEN SAID, YES,
THERE'S A BURDEN ON FREE SPEECH,
BUT TWO REASONS UPHOLD THESE
FEES.
ONE IS LABOR PEACE, AND THE
OTHER IS YOU DON'T WANT FREE
RIDERS.
WHY SHOULD NON-UNION WORKERS GET
THE ADVANTAGE OF COLLECTIVE
BARGAINING BUT NOT CONTRIBUTE TO
THE COST?
WELL, TODAY IN ANOTHER 5-4
DECISION, WRITTEN BY JUSTICE
ALITO, THE COURT REFUSED TO
OVERTURN THAT 1977 DECISION.
INSTEAD IT HAD A LOT OF NEGATIVE
COMMENTS ABOUT THAT DECISION,
BUT IT SAID THAT THESE
PARTICULAR HOME HEALTH CARE
WORKERS WERE NOT WHAT HE CALLED
"FULL-FLEDGED PUBLIC EMPLOYEES."
THEY AREN'T LIKE SCHOOLTEACHERS
OR POLICE OFFICERS.
THEIR TRY EMPLOYERS WERE THEIR
CUSTOMERS, THE PEOPLE THEY CARED
FOR.
THEY DID GET PAID THROUGH THE
MEDICAID PROGRAM, BUT THAT WAS
THE ONLY REAL CONNECTION TO
GOVERNMENT.
AND SO HE FELT AND THE MAJORITY
FELT THAT THIS WAS NOT ENOUGH TO
OVERCOME THE BURDEN ON THEIR
FREE SPEECH AND ASSOCIATION
RIGHTS.
>> Woodruff: BUT THE UPSHOT IS
THAT THERE ARE NOW... UNIONS
WILL SEE SOME LIMITS TO WHAT
THEY CAN EXPECT MEMBERS,
DUES-PAYING MEMBERS OR AS YOU
SAY THE AGENCY FEE TO BE PAID TO
THEM.
>> ABOUT HALF THE STATES HAVE
WHAT IS KNOWN AS "RIGHT TO WORK"
LAWS, WHERE THIS PROBABLY WON'T
AFFECT NON-UNION MEMBERS, BUT
THE OTHER HALF OF THE STATES
WILL PROBABLY HAVE TO EXAMINE
THE CATEGORY OF PUBLIC EMPLOYEES
THEY HAVE TO SEE IF ANY ARE LIKE
THE EIGHT WHO CHALLENGED THE
ILLINOIS REQUIREMENT.
SO THE IMPACT MAY BE FELT THERE.
IT WAS NARROWER DECISION THAN
WHAT UNIONS FEARED.
IF THE UNIONS HAD SUFFERED THE
FULL DEFEAT AND HAD THAT 19 77
DECISION OVERTURNED, THAT WOULD
HAVE BEEN EXTREMELY DAMAGING TO
THEIR ABILITY TO UNIONIZE AS
WELL AS TO DO EFFECTIVE
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING.
>> WHAT WAS THE DISSENT ARGUING
IN THIS CASE?
>> THE DISSENT, WHICH WAS
WRITTEN BY JUSTICE KAGAN SAID
BASICALLY THAT 1977 DECISION
SETTLED THE MATTER.
THERE WAS NO DIFFERENCE HERE.
THESE WERE PUBLIC EMPLOYEES AND
JUSTIFICATION FOR THE AGENCY
FEES STILL EXISTED AND SHOULD
HAVE APPLIED TO THESE EMPLOYEES.
>> I GUESS COMING OUT OF THIS,
WHAT A LOT OF FOLKS ARE GOING TO
BE LOOKING TO AND WHAT YOU JUST
REFERRED TO IS WHETHER UNIONS
ARE GOING TO SEE THIS AS
CLIPPING THEIR WINGS.
>> I THINK THEY PROBABLY FELT
SOME AMOUNT OF RELIEF, BUT IT'S
PRETTY CLEAR THAT THAT 1977
DECISION IS ON LIFE SUPPORT.
>> Woodruff: OKAY.
MARCIA COYLE.
TWO BIG DECISIONS FROM THE COURT
TODAY.
THIS IS THE END OF THE TERM.
>> IT IS.
THAT'S RIGHT.
>> Woodruff: ALL RIGHT,
MARCIA.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Woodruff: GENERAL MOTORS
ANNOUNCED FAR MORE SAFETY
RECALLS TODAY, THIS TIME AN
ADDITIONAL 8.4 MILLION VEHICLES
WORLDWIDE.
THE AUTO-MAKER SAID IT IS AWARE
OF SEVEN CRASHES, EIGHT INJURIES
AND THREE FATALITIES RELATED TO
THE RECALLED VEHICLES.
G.M. SAID IT KNOWS OF PROBLEMS
WITH THE IGNITION'S KEY'S
ROTATION.
THE MODELS, WHICH INCLUDE
CADILLACS, CHEVY MALIBUS AND
IMPALAS, AMONG OTHERS, WERE SOLD
BETWEEN 1996 AND 2014.
THAT NEWS CAME JUST HOURS AFTER
TERMS FOR A VICTIMS'
COMPENSATION FUND WERE
ANNOUNCED.
THAT FUND WILL HAVE NO CAP AND
THE FUND'S ADMINISTRATOR SAID HE
WILL DO "WHATEVER IT TAKES" TO
RESOLVE EACH AND EVERY CLAIM.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS OUR COVERAGE.
>> Brown: MORE THAN 250 MILLION
CARS ARE ON AMERICAN ROADS, AND
SIX MONTHS AGO, GENERAL MOTORS
RECALLED 2.6 MILLION OF THEM,
FOR POTENTIALLY DEADLY IGNITION
SWITCH PROBLEMS.
THE AUTO-MAKER HAD KNOWN ABOUT
THE PROBLEM FOR MORE THAN A
DECADE, AND ULTIMATELY
ACKNOWLEDGED IT'S ROLE IN AT
LEAST 13 DEATHS.
TODAY CAME THE DETAILS ON A
COMPENSATION FUND FOR VICTIMS.
>> I WANT TO EXPLAIN A BIT THE
DOLLARSND T AHE COMPENSATION
AVAILAE UNDER THE PROGRAM.
>> Brown: KENNETH FEINBERG HAS
PREVIOUSLY RUN A NUMBER OF HIGH-
PROFILE FUNDS FOR VICTIMS,
INCLUDING AFTER 9/11 AND THE
GULF OIL SPILL.
NOW, HE'LL ADMINISTER THE G.M.
PROGRAM.
HE SAYS THERE WILL BE NO CAP ON
DAMAGES FOR ANYONE WHO'S
ELIGIBLE.
>> THE DRIVER, ANY PASSENGERS IN
THE AUTOMOBILE.
ANY PEDESTRIAN.
ANY OCCUPANT OF A SECOND VEHICLE
INVOLVED IN THE ACCIDENT.
ALL ELIGIBLE TO FILE A CLAIM.
>> Brown: THE FUND COVERS
CHEVROLET COBALTS, SATURN IONS
AND OTHER MODELS.
IT WILL PAY AT LEAST $1 MILLION
FOR ALL DEATHS, PLUS $300,000
DOLLARS TO SURVIVING SPOUSES AND
CHILDREN.
SOME OF THE RELATIVES WERE ON
HAND FOR FEINBERG'S EVENT IN
WASHINGTON, INCLUDING LAURA
CHRISTIAN AND ROSE CORTINAS,
BOTH OF WHOM HAD CHILDREN KILLED
IN G.M. VEHICLES.
>> IT'S NOT ABOUT THE MONEY, IT
REALLY ISN'T.
IT'S ABOUT MAKING SURE THAT EACH
AND EVERY PERSON THAT DIED IS
ACKNOWLEDGED.
>> AND I JUST WANT GENERAL
MOTORS TO BE RESPONSIBLE FOR ALL
THE DEATHS OF OTHERS WHO CANNOT
SPEAK FOR THEMSELVES.
THAT IS THE REASON WE ARE HERE
AND MAKING THE SACRIFICE OF
BEING HERE.
>> Brown: TODAY'S RECALL
ANNOUNCEMENT APPLIES TO OLDER
MID-SIZE CARS.
G.M. AND IT'S C.E.O. MARY BARRA
HAVE ALSO ANNOUNCED OTHER
RECALLS THIS YEAR, NOW COVERING
28 MILLION CARS.
>> Brown: WE DIG INTO THE
QUESTIONS SURROUNDING THIS
SETTLEMENT FUND WITH ITS
ADMINISTRATOR, KEN FEINBERG.
WELCOME BACK TO THE SHOW.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Brown: ONE OBVIOUS
DIFFERENCE FROM PAST INSTANCES
YOU'VE BEEN INVOLVED WITH, THESE
ARE OLD CASE, RIGHT, WITH LITTLE
PHYSICAL EVIDENCE LEFT?
>> YES.
>> Brown: SO HOW DO YOU
RES
>> THAT'S CHALLENGE.
A GOOD PORTION OF THE
AUTOMOBILES ARE LONG GONE.
THERE MAY STILL BE BLACK BOX
DATA FROM THE E.D.R., FROM THE
COMPUTER IN THE CAR, BUT POLICE
REPORTS, INSURANCE REPORTS,
WARRANTY AND MAINTENANCE
REPORTS, PHOTOGRAPHS OF THE
ACCIDENT VERY IMPORTANT.
SOME OF THESE CASES HAVE BEEN
LITIGATED.
LET'S LOOK AT THE TRIAL
TESTIMONY OR THE DEPOSITIONS
THAT WERE TAKEN.
WE WILL WORK WITH EVERY CLAIMANT
TO TRY AND MAXIMIZE THE
LIKELIHOOD THAT WE'LL LOOK AT
ALL THE EVIDENCE.
>> Brown: TO WHAT LEVEL OF
CERTAINTY WILL YOU REQUIRE?
>> WE WILL REQUIRE THAT THE
IGNITION SWITCH BE FOUND BY THE
ADMINISTRATOR, NOT GM, BY ME, TO
HAVE BEEN A SUBSTANTIAL CAUSE OF
THE ACCIDENT.
AND IF WE FIND THAT, FOR NOT
ONLY THE DRIVER BUT THESE OTHER
INDIVIDUALS THAT YOU REFERENCED
IN YOUR... OR I REFERENCED
TODAY, THEY'RE ALL ELIGIBLE TO
FILE A CLAIM.
>> Brown: IT IS DIFFERENT.
YOU ARE MORE OF A DECISION MAKER
IN DETERMINING CSE AND EFFECT.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
I HAVE SOLE DISCRETION UNDER
THIS PROGRAM, AGREED TO BY
GENERAL MOTORS.
ONCE I MAKE A FINAL
DETERMINATION AS TO ELIGIBILITY
OR VALUE, GM CANNOT SECOND GUESS
IT.
GM MUST HONOR MY DECISION.
>> Brown: DO YOU HAVE... DO
YOU KNOW HOW MANY CLAIMS THERE
WILL BE, HOW MANY VICTIMS?
DO YOU HAVE ANY IDEA?
>>LY NOT SPECULATE.
UNTIL PEOPLE FILE AND
DEMONSTRATE WHAT IT IS THAT
THEY'RE ALLEGING, I'M EXTREMELY
RELUCTANT TO SPECULATE ABOUT
DEATHS OR CATASTROPHIC INJURIES
LIKE PARAPLEGICS ORRAIN B
INJURIES.
WE'LL HAVE TO TAKE A LOOK AT
EACH FILE.
>>
>> Brown: ONE ISSUE IT SEEMS
AS THOUGH YOU BATTED AWAY
QUICKLY IS THIS CONTRIBUTORY
NEGLIGENCE.
THAT'S WHETHER A PERSON, FOR
EXAMPLE, WAS DRINKING WHEN THIS
HAPPENED.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
>> Brown: YOU'RE TAKING OUT AS
FACTOR?
>> ABSOLUTELY IRRELEVANT,
DRINKING, SPEAKING, TEXTING ON A
CELL PHONE AND NOT PAYING
ATTENTION, CONTRIBUTORY
NEGLIGENCE.
A BIG ISSUE IN THE COURTROOM.
HERE UNDER THIS FUND WE HAVE NO
INTEREST IN LOOKING AT THAT...
>> Brown: WHY?
>> THIS IS A PROGRAM DESIGNED TO
COMPENSATE VICTIMS WITH AN
AUTOMOBILE DEFECT THEY DIDN'T
KNOW ABOUT AT THE TIME.
AND WHETHER THEY CONTRIBUTED TO
THE ACCIDENT OR WHATEVER IS
REALLYTO THE ISSUE
AT HAND -- DID THE DEFECT CAUSE
THE ACCIDENT.
>> Brown: SO PEOPLE COULD GET
FROM A FEW THOUSAND DOLLARS
PERHAPS TO MILLIONS?
YOU'VE DONE THIS SO MANY TIMES.
WHAT'S THE FORMULA IN A CASE
LIKE THIS?
OU SEE EVERY DAY IN THE
COURTROOM, AT LEAST FOR THE
DEATHS AND THE MOST CATASTROPHIC
INJURIES.
WHAT WOULD THE VICTIM HAVE
EARNED OVER A LIFETIME BUT FOR
THIS TRAGEDY?
SECOND, WHAT ABOUT PAIN AND
SUFFERING AND EMOTIONAL
DISTRESS?
ADD THOSE NUMBERS TOGETHER AND
IT MIGHT BE MILLIONS AND
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS.
WE'LL SEE BASED TOON NATURE OF
THE CLAIMS THAT COME INTO THE
PROGRAM.
>> Brown: BUT IT IS A FORMULA,
SO THAT TAKES AWAY SOME OF YOUR
DISCRETION IN A SENSE.
>> SOME OF IT, BUT ANY CLAIMANT,
IT'S AN INTERESTING ISSUE YOU
POSE, ANY CLAIMANT WHO SAYS,
MR. FEINBERG, YOUR FORMULA
DOESN'T TAKE INTO ACCOUNT
EXTRAORDINARY CIRCUMSTANCES.
I'VE HEARD SOME CASES, ONE LADY
HAS LIVED FOR TEN YEARS WITH A
FELONY CONVICTION FOR RECKLESS
DRIVING BECAUSE NO ONE KNEW AT
THE TIME, THEY BLAMED HER.
NOBODY KNEW AT THE TIME IT WAS
THE SWITCH.
THAT LADY HAS EXTRAORDINARY
CLAIM HERE, AND WE WILL GO
OUTSIDE THE FORMULA AND TAKE A
LOOK AT THOSE UNIQUE
CHARACTERISTICS.
>> Brown: THIS IS A CASE, AND
I THINK B.P. WAS ALSO, WHERE YOU
WERE HIRED BY THE COMPANY TO
HELP SETTLE.
GM, OF COURSE, HAS BEEN UNDER
EXTREME CRITICISM FOR KEEPING
THIS TO ITSELF.
WHAT IS YOUR RELATIONSHIP WITH
GM?
WHAT IS YOUR EXPERIENCE SO FAR
IN TERMS OF THEIR COOPERATION?
>> FIRST OF ALL, THEY'VE BEEN
EXTRAORDINARILY COOPERATIVE.
MARY BARRA HAS LIVED UP TO HER
PROMISE IN TERMS OF COOPERATING
COMPLETELY WITH ME AND THE TEAM
THAT WE'VE ASSEMBLED IN TRYING
TO DESIGN THIS PROGRAM.
I HAVE NO COMPLAINTS WHATSOEVER.
I THINK THE PLAINTIFF'S LAWYERS
AROUND THE COUNTRY, BOB HILLIARD
AND LANCE COOPER AND ELIZABETH
CABRESE AND OTHERS HAVE BEEN
EXTREMELY COOPERATIVE.
THE CENTER FOR AUTO SAFETY, JOAN
CLAYBROOK'S GROUP, VERY, VERY
COOPERATIVE.
SO EVERYBODY'S COOPERATED.
I DON'T THINK, A, THAT ANYBODY
IS PERFECTLY SATISFIED WITH MY
PLAN.
THE PERFECT IS THE ENEMY OF THE
GOOD TO ME.
AND SECOND, THE FACT I AM
BEING PAID BY GM CHALLENGE.
>> YEAH.
>> PEOPLE LOOK AT THAT AND
UNDERSTANDABLY ARE SCEPTICAL.
>> Brown: RIGHT.
>> THE ONLY WAY YOU GET AROUND
THIS SCEPTICISM IS GET THE MONEY
OUT.
>> Brown: I WAS GOING TO SAY
THAT, DID HIT YOU IN B.P., FOR
EXAMPLE, WHERE YOU FACED SOME
CRITICISM.
>> BETWEEN THE EYES.
THE WAY WE GOT AROUND THIS, THE
WAY WE GOT AROUND THIS IN B.P.,
YOU'LL RECALL, IN 16 MONTHS WE
PAID OUT $6.5 BILLION AND
HONORED OVER HALF MAILON CLAIMS.
AND THE SAME THING HERE.
UNTIL WE ACTUALLY GET MONEY
FLOWING, AND THIS IS A VOLUNTARY
PROGRAM, NOBODY HAS TO
PARTICIPATE, UNTIL WE GET MONEY
OUT THE DOOR, THAT SCEPTICISM IS
SURE TO CONTINUE.
>> Brown: JUST TO BE CLEAR,
BEYOND YOUR PURVIEW OF WHAT
YOU'RE DOING, BUT NONE OF WHAT
YOU'RE DOING ENDS INVESTIGATIONS
THAT MIGHT LEAD TO CRIMINAL
CHARGES AGAINST THE COMPANY.
>> THIS HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH
THAT.
THIS IS ALL ABOUT COMPENSATING
INNOCENT VICTIMS THROUGH NO
FAULT OF THEIR OWN, AND WE'RE
DETERMINED TO TRY AND MAXIMIZE
THAT COMPENSATION ONCE THEY
DEMONSTRATE THAT THEY HAVE AN
ELIGIBLE CLAIM.
WE'LL WORK WITH THEM IN TRYING
TO GET THAT DEMONSTRATED.
>> BRIEFLY, WHAT'S YOUR TIME
LINE?
HOW QUICKLY DO YOU WANT TO GET
THIS DONE IN.
>> WE'LL BEGIN ACCEPTING CLAIMS
AUGUST 1st.
PEOPLE CAN FILE A CLAIM UNTIL
DECEMBER 31st OF THIS YEAR.
SO THEY HAVE A QUICK TIME LINE.
AND ONCE THAT CLAIM COMES IN AND
WE FIND THAT IT IS COMPLETE,
IT'S SUBSTANTIALLY COMPLETE WITH
DOCUMENTATION, WE'LL PAY THESE
CLAIMS, THE SIMPLE CLAIMS WITHIN
90 DAYS, AND THE MORE
COMPLICATED CLAIMS, NO MORE THAN
180 DAYS, WHICH CONTRASTS I
THINK VERY WELL WIT THE
ALTERNATIVE, WHICH IS LITIGATING
IN THE COURTROOM.
>> Brown: ALL RIGHT.
KENNETH FEINBERG, THANK YOU SO
MUCH.
>> THANK
>> Woodruff: ALMOST 80% OF
CHILDREN WHO ARE DIAGNOSED WITH
CANCER TODAY IN THE U.S.
SURVIVE, THANKS IN LARGE PART TO
ADVANCES IN TREATMENTS LIKE
RADIATION AND CHEMOTHERAPY.
BUT A GROWING BODY OF RESEARCH
INDICATES SURVIVORS ARE AT
GREATER RISK FOR A HOST OF
HEALTH PROBLEMS IN LATER LIFE,
DUE TO THE VERY TREATMENTS THAT
SAVED THEIR LIVES.
THE NEWSHOUR'S CAT WISE HAS OUR
REPORT.
>> Reporter: LAURA ALLAIRE HAS
HER HANDS FULL THESE DAYS.
A FORMER NURSE, SHE'S NOW A
STAY-AT-HOME MOM RAISING TWO
YOUNG DAUGHTERS IN ORINDA
CALIFORNIA, JUST OUTSIDE SAN
FRANCISCO.
ALLAIRE, WHO IS 33, EXERCISES
OFTEN AND DOES YOGA.
IN MANY WAYS, SHE IS THE PICTURE
OF HEALTH, BUT A DECADE AGO SHE
WAS IN A VERY DIFFERENT PLACE.
>> I WAS DIAGNOSED WHEN I WAS 12
YEARS OLD WITH HODGKINS
LYMPHOMA.
>> Reporter: ALLAIRE WAS IN 7TH
GRADE WHEN SHE LEARNED SHE HAD
CANCER.
SHE KEPT A JOURNAL DETAILING A
GRUELING YEAR OF HOSPITAL VISITS
AND TREATMENTS.
>> AFTER THE DOCTOR CHECKS ME,
SHE SAYS I CAN GET MY KEEPO.
I GO SEE MELODY.
SHE GIVES ME MY CHEMO THROUGH A
PORT.
THE CHEMOTHERAPY AND RADIATION
ALLAIRE RECEIVED ARE WELL-KNOWN
WEAPONS IN THE BATTLE AGAINST
CAN
POWERFUL CHEMICALS IN
CHEMOTHERAPY DRUGS ATTACK CELLS
THAT ARE RAPIDLY DIVIDING. AND
HIGH-ENERGY BEAMS USED IN
RADIATION KILL CANCER CELLS BY
DAMAGING THEIR D.N.A.
>> I HAD A MASS IN MY CHEST AND
SO THE RADIATION WAS DIRECTED
THERE.
AND MY DOCTORS ACTUALLY GAVE ME
A SMALL TATTOO AFTER I WAS DONE
WITH THE RADIATION SO THAT I
WOULD ALWAYS KNOW EXACTLY WHERE
THE RADIATION WAS DIRECTED
TOWARDS.
>> Reporter: BUT IRONICALLY, THE
SAME TREATMENTS THAT SAVED
ALLAIRES AND SO MANY OTHER
CANCER PATIENTS LIVES, ALSO COME
WITH A DOWNSIDE.
IN THE PROCESS OF KILLING THE
CANCER CELLS, THEY CAN DAMAGE
SURROUNDING HEALTHY CELLS, WHICH
CAN LEAD TO OTHER HEALTH
PROBLEMS KNOWN AS LATE EFFECTS.
THAT'S PARTICULARLY DANGEROUS
FOR THOSE WHO BEAT CANCER WHEN
THEY ARE YOUNG AND HAVE YEARS TO
LOP THE LATE EFFECTS.
A RECENT STUDY FOUND TT ADHALT
SURVIVORS OF CHILDHOOD CANCER
ARE FIVE TIMES MORE LIKELY THA
THEIR SIBLINGS TO DEVELOP NEW
CANCERS, HEART PROBLEMS AND
OTHER SERIOUS HEALTH CONDITIONS
AFTER THE AGE OF 35.
>> THE GOOD NEWS IS MORE PEOPLE
ARE SURVIVING CANCER, THE BAD
NEWS IS THOSE THAT SURVIVE, MORE
THAN HALF HAVE A LONG TERM
ISSUE.
: DR. ROBERT GOLDSBY
IS A PEDIATRIC ONCOLOGIST AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SAN
FRANCISCO BENIOFF CHILDRENS
HOSPITAL.
CANCER PROGRAM, ALSOVORS OF
KNOWN AS THE SURVIVORS CLINIC.
IT'S ONE OF AR
PRMS
ARE CARING FOR THE MORE THAN
300,000 SURVIVOF
CANCER AND STUDYING THEIR LONG-
TERM HEALTH.
IN ADDITION TO GETTING FREQUENT
CHECKUPS, SURVIVORS AND THEIR
FAMILIES ARE EDUCATED ABOUT
HEAH RISKS THEY FACE, BASED ON
THE SPECIFIC TREATMENTS THEY
RECEIVED, AND WHERE THEY
RECEIVED THEM.
>> THE ORGANS IN OUR BODIES CAN
BE BEATEN UP BY THE
CHEMOTHERAPY, THE RADIATION, THE
SURGERIES, SO WE HAVE TO MONITOR
HEART FUNCTION, LUNG FUNCTION,
LIVER, KIDNEYS, ALL THE ORGANS.
SOME SURVIVORS DEAL WITH
INFERTILITY, POST-TRAUMATIC
STRESS SYNDROME.
>> Reporter: LAURA ALLAIRE KNOWS
ALL TOO WELL THE POSSIBLE SIDE
EFFECTS OF THE RADIATION AND
CHEMO TREATMENT SHE RECEIVED AS
A CHILD.
ON A RECENT DAY SHE WAS AT THE
SURVIVORS CLINIC FOR A REGULAR
CHECK-UP WITH DR. GOLDSBY.
LAST YEAR ALLAIRE HAD HER
THYROID REMOVED AFTER AN
ULTRASOUND REVEALED A SUSPICIOUS
GROWTH.
AND SHE'S BEEN ON MEDICAON FOR
A HEART PROBLEM, CONDITIONS DR.
GOLDSBY SAYS ARE LIKELY CAUSED
BY HER CANCER TREATMENTS AS A
YOUNGSTER.
BUT ABOUT 5% OF ALL PEDIATRIC
CANCER SURVIVORS FACE A FAR MORE
SERIOUS REPERCUSSION: SECONDARY
CANCER.
THAT RISK INCREASES WITH AGE AND
WITH CERTAIN THERAPIES.
ELEVEN-YEAR-OLD SAMANTHA SCHWARZ
IS BATTLING CANCER FOR THE
SECOND TIME IN HER LIFE.
THE BONE CANCER DISCOVERED IN
HER TEMPLE LAST YEAR  WAS MOST
LIKELY CAUSED BY RADIATION SHE
RECEIVED IN THE SAME AREA AS AN
INFANT TO TREAT A TUMOR BEHIND
HER LEFT EYE.
>> IT'S BEEN A LITTLE TOUGH
COMING TO THE HOSPITAL EVERY TWO
WEEKS, ITS BEEN TOUGH NOT SEEING
MY BROTHER, AND MY DOG, AND MY
DAD.
DR. GOLDSBY HELPED TO DIAGNOSE
SAMANTHA'S SECOND CANCER WHILE
SHE WAS BEING SEEN AT THE
SURVIVORS CLINIC AT U.C.S.F.
BENIOFF CHILDRENS HOSPITAL IN
SAN FRANCISCO.
>> THE FACT THAT THEY HAVE TO GO
THROUGH THERAPY AGAIN MAYCREASER
LONG TERM RELATED ISSUES.
MARILYN SCHWARZ IS SAMANTHAS
MOM.
>> THE DOCTORS DID TELL US ABOUT
SOME OF THE AFTER EFFECTS OF
CHEMOTHERAPY AND RADIATION, BUT
FOR US THERE WAS NO CHOICE, WE
JUST KNEW THAT OUR CHILD NEEDED
HELP RIGHT AWAY.
SO WHEN THE DOCTORS TOLD US THE
SECOND CANCER WAS HERE IN THE
HEAD, IN THE SAME SPOT, I THINK
FOR BOTH MY HUSBAND AND I OUR
HEARTS JUST DROPPED.
>> Reporter: BESIDES JUST LIVING
LONGER THAN ADULTS TREATED FOR
CANCER, THERE'S ANOTHER REASON
PEDIATRIC PATIENTS ARE MORE AT
RISK FOR RECURRENCES, ACCORDING
TO DR. JEAN NAKAMURA, A
RADIATION ONCOLOGIST AT THE
UNIVERSITY.
>> YOUNG CHILDREN HAVE
DEVELOPING TISSUES.
THEY UNDERGO RAPID PROLIFERATION
OF MULTIPLE ORGANS ARE GROWING,
THERE'S A LOT OF CELL ACTIVITY,
SO THAT PROBABLY IS A BASIC
REASON THAT CONTRIBUTES TO
SECOND CANCER RISK UNIQUELY IN
YOUNG CHILDREN AS COMPARED TO
EVERYBODY ELSE.
>> Reporter: DR. NAKAMURA IS
LEADING A TEAM OF SCIENTISTS WHO
ARE STUDYING THE GENETIC MAKEUP
OF SECOND CANCER TUMORS TO
UNDERSTAND WHY THEY FORM IN SOME
PATIENTS AFTER TREATMENT.
>> IF ONE COULD IDENTIFY GENES
OR MOLECULAR PATHWAYS THAT ARE
SPECIFICALLY ALTERED IN SECOND
CANCERS, WE MIGHT ACTUALLY BE
ABLE TO SCREEN FOR SECOND
CANCERS AND NOT HAVE TO WAIT
UNTIL SOMETHING DEVELOPS AND ITS
VISIBLE.
>> Reporter: BUT AS RESEARCH
CONTINUES TO UNFOLD INTO
SECONDARY CANCERS AND OTHER LATE
EFFECTS CAUSED BY CHEMO AND
RADIATION, DOCTORS TREATING
CRITICALLY ILL PATIENTS TODAY
MUST STILL RELY ON THOSE SAME
TREATMENTS.
DR. MIGNON LOH IS CHAIR OF
PEDIATRIC MOLECULAR ONCOLOGY AT
BENIOFF CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL.
>> I WOULD SAY THAT MOST
FAMILIES ARE REALLY FOCUSED ON
GETTING THEIR CHILD TO FEEL
BETTER, I THINK THAT'S WHERE
THEIR FOCUS SHOULD LIE.
I THINK AS PHYSICIANS WE HAVE
THE RESPONSIBILITY TO INFORM
THEM ABOUT POTENTIAL LATE
EFFECTS, NOT TO COMPLETELY
OVERWHELM THEM.
BUT I WOULD SAY OUR PRIORITY
CURRENTLY REMAINS CURING THE CA.
>> Reporter: FOR HER PART,
SURVIVOR LAURA ALLAIRE SAYS SHE
DOESN'T LIKE TO DWELL ON WHAT
MIGHT LIE AHEAD.
>> I DON'T THINK ABOUT IT ON A
DAILY BASIS BECAUSE THAT'S NOT
HOW I WANT TO LIVE MY LIFE.
I'VE BEEN THROUGH A LOT AND I
UNDERSTAND THAT THIS ISN'T
SOMETHING THAT MOST PEOPLE GO
THROUGH.
BUT I'M IN A UNIQUE SITUATION
AND I NEED TO BE PROACTIVE AND
MAKE SURE I TAKE CARE OF MYSELF.
>> Reporter: AND SHE GOES
FORWARD, MORE KNOWLEDGEABLE
ABOUT WHAT SHE WENT THROUGH AS A
CHILD, AND HOPEFUL FOR A HEALTHY
FUTURE.
>> Woodruff: ON OUR WEB PAGE,
YOU CAN SEE WHAT ALL PATIENTS OF
U.C.S.F. SURVIVORS CLINICS
RECEIVE, A HEALTH PASSPORT WHICH
GIVES DETAILED INFORMATION ABOUT
THEIR PAST TREATMENTS, AND
FOLLOW-UP CARE THEY NEED IN THE
FUTURE.
>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT OBAMA
ANNOUNCED TODAY THAT HE WILL
TAKE STEPS ON HIS OWN TO ADDRESS
THE COUNTRY'S IMMIGRATION
CRISIS, AFTER BEING TOLD THAT
THE REPUBLICAN CONTROLLED HOUSE
OF REPRESENTATIVESILL NOT VOTE
ON THE ISSUE THIS YEAR.
THE PRESIDENT SAID HE WAS
DIRECTING MORE AGENTS TO THE
THE O DREN.S. BORDER IN RESPONSE
COMING HERE FROM CENTRAL AMERICA
WITHOUT PARENTS OR RELATIVES.
HE IS ALSO SEEKING
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR OTHER
EXECUTIVE ACTIONS FROM HIS TEAM
OF IMMIGRATION ADVISERS BY THE
END OF THE SUMMER.
HERE'S SOME OF WHAT HE HAD TO
SAY:
>> I BELIEVE SPEAKER BOEHNER
WHEN HE SAYS HE WANTS TO PASS AN
IMMIGRATION BILL.
I THINK HE GENUINELY WANTS TO
GET SOMETHING DONE.
BUT LAST WEEK HE INFORMED ME THE
REPUBLICANS WILL CONTINUE TO
BLOCK A VOTE ON IMMIGRATION
REFORMAT LEAST FOR THE
REMAINDER OF THIS YEAR.
SOME IN THE HOUSE REPUBLICAN
CAUCUS ARE USING THE SITUATION
WITH UNACCOMPANIED CHILDREN AS
THEIR NEWEST EXCUSE TO DO
NOTHING.
AMERICA CANNOT WAITFOREVER FOR
THEM TO ACT.
THAT'S WHY TODAY I'M BEGINNING A
NEW EFFORT TO FIX AS MUCH OF OUR
IMMIGRATION SYSTEM AS I CAN ON
MY OWN.
WITHOUT CONGRESS.
IF HOUSE REPUBLICANS ARE REALLY
CONCERNED ABOUT ME TAKING TOO
MANY EXECUTIVE ACTIONS, THE BEST
SOLUTION TO THAT IS PASSING
BILLS.
PASS A BILL.
SOLVE A PROBLEM.
DON'T JUST SAY NO.
>> Woodruff: FOR MORE ON THE
PRESIDENT'S ANNOUNCEMENT WE TURN
TO JULIA PRESTON WHO COVERS
IMMIGRATION FOR "THE NEW YORK
WELCOME BACK TO THE "NEWSHOUR,"
JULIA.
WE KNOW THE SENATE DID VOTE A
YEAR AGO.
WHY ISN'T THE HOUSE GOING TO
PASS OR DEAL WITH IMMIGRATION
LEGISLATION?
>> WELL, THERE HAS BEEN A LOT OF
DIVISION AND DISSENSION WITHIN
THE HOUSE ABOUT WHAT TO DO ABOUT
THIS ISSUE.
SPEAKER BOEHNER HAS INDICATED
THAT HE WOULD LIKE THE MOVE
AHEAD, BUT IN RECENT DAYS, THE
DEFEAT OF THE MAJORITY LEADER
ERIC CANTOR AND THE SURGE OF
MIGRANTS ACROSS THE BORDER HAVE
REALLY DISCOURAGED MANY HOUSE
REPUBLICANS FROM MOVING FORWARD
ON IMMIGRATION REFORM.
>> Woodruff: SO WHAT IS THE
PRESIDENT SAYING EXACTLY THAT HE
WANTS TO SEE DONE?
AND WHEN HE SAYS THIS, HOW MUCH
OF A CHANGE IS IT FOR HIM?
>> WELL, WHAT HE SAID TODAY WAS
THAT HE HAS BEEN INFORMED BY
SPEAKER BOEHNER THAT THERE WILL
BE NO VOTES IN ON
IMMIGRATION REFORM THIS YEAR.
SO THE PRESIDENT ANNOUNCED THAT
HE'S GOING TO USE EXECUTIVE
ACTION TO, AS HE PUT IT, FIX THE
IMMIGRATION SYSTEM AS MUCH AS HE
CAN WITHIN THE POWERS THAT HE
HAS.
AND THE FIRST STEP THAT HE
ANNOUNCED IS THAT HE'S GOING TO
BE SHIFTING ENFORCEMENT
RESOURCES FROM FOCUSING ON
DEPORTING PEOPLE FROM THE
INTERIOR OF THE COUNTRY DOWN TO
THE BORDER WHERE THERE HAS BEEN
A BIG SURGE OF ILLEGAL
IMMIGRATION ACROSS THE BORDER IN
SOUTH TEXAS.
AND IN ADDITION, HE IS GOING TO
ASK SECRETARY JAY JOHNSON OF
HOMELAND SECURITY TO CONTINUE A
REVIEW THAT HE'S BEEN CARRYING
OUT THE FIND OTHER MEASURES TO
SLOW THE PACE OF DEPORTATIONS
AND MAKE OTHER FIXES TO THE
IMMIGRATION SYSTEM.
>> Woodruff: SO HOW MUCH OF A
SHIFT DOES TODAY'S ANNOUNCEMENT
REPRESENT?
>> I THINK IT REPRESENTS A
SIGNIFICANT CHANGE OF ATTITUDE
BY THE PRESIDENT.
THE REPUBLICANS IN THE HOUSE
HAVE BLAMED THE PRESIDENT FOR
CREATING THIS SURGE OF ILLEGAL
IMMIGRATION ACROSS THE BORDER BY
PAST EXECUTIVE ACTIONS THAT HE'S
TAKEN.
FOR EXAMPLE, IN 2012, THE
PRESIDENT OFFERED DEPORTATION
DEFERRALS TO YOUNG IMMIGRANTS
WHO HAD GROWN UP UNDOCUMENTED IN
THE UNITED STATES.
AND THERE'S A FEELING IN THE
HOUSE THAT THAT ACTION HAS
PARTIALLY CONTRIBUTED TO
UNLEASHING THIS SURGE OF NEW
ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION ACROSS THE
BORDER.
THE PRESIENT TODAY REJECTED
THAT ANALYSIS AND HE HAS PUT THE
REPUBLICANS IN THE HOUSE ON
NOTICE THAT HE'S GOING TO MOVE
FORWARD WITH HIS OWN ACTIONS TO
REDUCE THE PACE OF DEPORTATIONS,
PERHAPS TO GIVE DEPORTATION
DEFERRALS TO MUCH BROADER GROUP
OF PEOPLE AND HE IS GOING TO GO
AHEAD AND CHANGE THE SYSTEM TO
HE EXTENT IT'S POSSIBLE WITHIN
HIS AUTHORITY.
>> Woodruff: WELL, IS IT
WITHIN HIS AUTHORITYO DO WHAT
HE'S DOING?
AS YOU KNOW, THERE'S A LOT OF
DISCUSSION AND DEBATE RECENTLY,
IN FACT, THE SUPREME COURT RULED
ON HOW MUCH POWER THE PRESIDENT
HAS.
DOES HE HAVE THE POWER TO DO
WHAT HE ANNOUNCED TODAY?
>> WELL, THERE'S CERTAINLY A
GREAT DEAL OF ARGUMENT ABOUT
THAT, BUT THE PRESIDENT SEEMED
TO INDICATE TODAY THAT HE THINKS
HE HAS QUITE SUBSTANTIAL POWERS.
HE DIDN'T MENTION SPECIFICALLY
ANY OTHER MEASURES THAT HE WILL
TAKE, BUT HE DID SAY THAT HE
EXPECTS THIS REVIEW BY THE
HOMELAND SECURITY SECRETARY TO
BE DONE BY THE END OF THE
SUMMER, AND HE DID SUGGEST THAT
THERE WOULD BE BROAD MEASURES
THAT HE WOULD BE TAKING.
>> WILL THERE BE OPPOSITIONO T
WHAT THE PRESIDENT IS SAYING HE
WANTS TO DO NOW?
>> THERE IS GREAT OPPOSITION
WITHIN THE REPUBLICAN CAUCUS,
PARTICULARLY IN THE HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES.
SPEAKER BOEHNER HAS SAID THAT HE
IS GOING TO INTRODUCE
LEGISLATION THAT WOULD ALLOW HIM
AND THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
TO SUE THE PRESIDENT OVER PAST
EXECUTIVE ACTIONS THAT THE
PRESIDENT HAS TAKEN.
SO THIS IS REALLY GOING TO BE A
TREMENDOUS FLASH POINT BETWEEN
THE WHITE HOUSE AND THE
REPUBLICANS IN THE HOUSE WHERE
THERE IS ALREADY A GREAT DEAL OF
POLARIZATION AND DIFFERENCE OF
OPINION.
>> Woodruff: DOES THAT MEAN
THE REPUBLICANS DISAGREE WITH
THE MOVE OF SENDING MORE AGENTS
TO THE BORDER?
>> NO, I DON'T THINK THEY
DISAGREE WITH THAT, BUT THEY
DISAGREE WITH THE PRESIDENT
ACTING ON HIS OWN WITHOUT
GETTING LEGISLATION FROM
AND THE REASON THAT REPUBLICANS
HAVE GIVEN FOR NOT PASSING
IMMIGRATION LISLATION THIS
YEAR IS BECAUSE THEY DISTRUST
THE PRESIDENT TO ENFORCE THE
CURRENT IMMIGRATION LAWS.
TH IS THE ARGUMENT HAT THE
REPUBLICANS HAVE MADE AND THAT
HAS STOPPED THE PROCESS OF
LEGISLATION MOVING FORWARD THIS
YEAR.
>> Woodruff: WELL, IT'S
CERTAINLY SOMETHING THAT'S
GOTTEN ALL OF OUR ATTENTION.
JULIA PRESTON WITH "THE NEW YORK
TIMES," WE THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE OTHER
MAJOR DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
THE SUPREME COURT RULED, 5 TO 4,
THAT CLOSELY HELD COMPANIES WITH
RELIGIOUS OBJECTIONS DO NOT HAVE
TO COVER BIRTH CONTROL UNDER THE
HEALTH CARE LAW.
PRESIDENT OBAMA NOMINATED FORMER
PROCTOR AND GAMBLE EXECUTIVE
ROBERT MCDONALD TO BE SECRETARY
OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.
AND THE PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE
ENDED A CEASE-FIRE WITH PRO-
RUSSIAN REBELS.
HE SAID, "WE WILL ATTACK, WE
WILL FREE OUR LAND."
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE RIGHT
NOW, THE DEVIL IS FREQUENTLY IN
THE DETAILS.
ESPECIALLY WHEN IT COMES TO WEB-
SITES' TERMS OF SERVICE
AGREEMENTS.
IT WAS REVEALED FACEBOOK
PERFORMED PSYCHOLOGICAL
EXPERIMENTS ON THOUSANDS OF IT'S
USERS.
FIND OUT HOW SIMPLY SINGING UP
FOR THE SOCIAL MEDIA GIANT GAVE
THE COMPANY PERMISSION TO
COLLECT YOUR DATA FOR RESEARCH,
ON THE RUNDOWN.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT.
BEFORE WE GO, WE'D LIKE TO
SALUTE ROBERT MACNEIL AND JIM
LEHRER, OUR FOUNDING FATHERS.
TONIGHT IS THE LAST EDITION OF
THIS PROGRAM PRODUCED BY THE
COMPANY THEY CREATED TO SUPPORT
WHAT WE CALL "MACNEIL LEHRER
JOURNALISM."
AS OF TOMORROW, WE WELCOME
W.E.T.A. THE WASHINGTON D.C.
PUBLIC TELEVISION STATION AS IT
TAKES OVER.
ROBIN AND JIM, WE KNOW YOU'RE
WATCHING, YOUR LEGACY LIVES ON,
OUR JOURNALISM WILL REMAIN THE
SAME, AND YOU HAVE OUR
EVERLASTING THANKS.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE P.B.S.
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND
GOODNIGHT.